---
layout: post
title: My first month at Karolinska Institutet
date: 2024-03-03 12:00:00
description: 
tags: Stockholm PostDoc Karolinska-Institutet
categories: General
thumbnail: assets/img/stockholm/camila-birthday.jpg
giscus_comments: true
---

Today marks one month since I arrived in Stockholm for my research visit on the 3rd of February. Having spent four weeks in the Karolinska Institutet, my experience has been a blend of captivating research and engaging social life. I will write about what happened over the past two weeks in this blog post.

## Research updates

The initial and most important step in conducting a epidemiological study is to define its aims and objectives, and create a plan of analysis. Similarly, one of the key requirements for causal inference is to have "a well-defined causal question". To ensure these, we began our target trial emulation (TTE) study by formulating the research question and developing a study protocol.

Our project is progressing well with helpful comments and suggestions from colleagues at KI. I'm particularly grateful to Dr Conor MacDonald for his valuable input. Currently, we are working on a near-finished research motivation and protocol by using the classic TTE protocol table, which includes a column for a (hypothetical) randomized controlled trial (RCT) and the necessary adaptations required for emulation (for details see [Hernán and Robins, 2016](https://doi.org/10.1093/aje/kwv254)). When designing a TTE study to evaluate treatment effects, one would firstly consider how clinicians would choose to do in a real-world setting instead of drafting data analysis plans based on all available variables. In other words, we specify the components of the target RCT first, then move on to fill in the respective information for the emulation. Keeping in mind the real-life scenarios has two benefits for the TTE study:
1. We are doing our best to emulate an RCT, which is the gold standard for answering causal questions; 
2. We will have a better understanding of any unmeasured variables, which may be necessary for emulating the randomization.

Additionally, we are exploring potential biases in our TTE study using directed acyclic graphs (DAGs). Below is an example of DAG illustrating the structure of biases involved in a longitudinal study with time-varying confounding and selection bias from variables at baseline (time t=0) and the first time point during follow-up (t=1).

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/stockholm/dag.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=false %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    A directed acyclic graph
</div>

## Leisure and social life

Apart from my work, I have participated in various activities within and outside KI. Firstly, my colleague Camila at CAUSALab celebrated her birthday in February. Camila is a brilliant Colombian researcher who has a clinical background and now develops statistical methods for the joint analysis of observational data and RCT results at CAUSALab. To mark this special occasion, our team went out for lunch together, and our group lead, Anita, kindly bought a prinsesstårta (princess cake) from Vete-Katten to celebrate Camila's birthday. It's a great pleasure for me to join the group for the celebration. 

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/stockholm/camila-birthday.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/stockholm/green-card.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Camila's birthday fika / My green card
</div>

I started exploring the gym and health promotion activities at KI. As a medical institution, KI highly values the role of sports and exercise in maintaining good health and puts this into practice. The university provides a free gym for its students and staff at the Solna campus and also conducts a range of training sessions, from yoga and volleyball to weightlifting, free of cost. Staff at IMM have also been organising weekly workout sessions during work hours. I have signed up for a few activities in the coming weeks, and I hope to be more active while I'm here!

It is also worth mentioning that I recently obtained a national climbing license for top rope belaying in Sweden—a green card. Belaying is not just about the techniques; to me, it feels a great responsibility to ensure someone else's safety. At the same time, it is an excellent opportunity to collaborate and build trust with my climbing partner. Learning to belay has been a fun experience that has opened up new possibilities for me.
