---
layout: post
title: Hello Stockholm!
date: 2024-02-18 1:00:00
description: This is the first post of a series of blogs recording my research visit to the Karolinska Institutet, Sweden.
tags: Stockholm PostDoc Karolinska-Institutet
categories: General
thumbnail: assets/img/stockholm/stone-lions.jpg
giscus_comments: true
---

Earlier this month, I moved to Stockholm to begin my 6-month research visit to the Karolinska Institutet (KI), one of the world's best medical institutions, where the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine is awarded every year. My visit is funded by the Wellcome Trust PhD in Molecular, Genetic and Lifecourse Epidemiology (MGLE) Transition Fellowship hosted by the University of Bristol. As a requirement for the awardee, I will maintain a blog to share my experience in KI, which can be useful for anyone interested in a similar visit in the future :smile:

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/stockholm/stone-lions-rectangular.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Stockholm's stone lions
</div>

During this visit, I hope to learn more about **causal inference** and data analysis with electronic health records through conducting a research project using the **target trial emulation** framework and the Swedish national register data. For those who are not familar with causal inference, this discipline aims to infer causal relationships from observational data using advanced statistical approaches. Target trial emulation is a study design for causal inference where observational data are used to emulate a target randomised controlled trial (RCT), which is otherwise expensive, unethical or time-consuming to conduct ([Hernán et al., 2022](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/article-abstract/2799678), [Matthews et al., 2022](https://www.bmj.com/content/378/bmj-2022-071108)). This technique has recently been applied to examine the effectiveness and safety of antiviral nirmatrelvir/ritonavir treatment among pregnant women with SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant infection ([Wong et al., 2023](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-023-02674-0)).

For my postdoc, I am interested in exploring the potential of combining this approach with Mendelian randomization to answer a range of different research questions on drug repurposing. The CAUSALab at the Institute for Environmental Medicine (IMM) of KI is dedicated to developing causal inference methodologies and applying causal inference for epidemiological research, and it is a great pleasure for me to learn from the brilliant researchers at CAUSALab.

Another reason to visit the CAUSALab at KI is the data - electronic health records and other data recorded in the Swedish national registers. The history of Swedish registers can be traced back to the 17th century when the Church of Sweden kept a record of its members for tax and conscription, and the administration of national registration was transferred to the Swedish Tax Agency in 1991. Now, the largest register covering all regular residents of Sweden is referred to as the Population Register (PR-Tax) and the Total Population Register (TPR) of Sweden, which contain basic information such as sex, date of birth, civil status, and address. Building upon the TPR, many other specialised registers, such as the Swedish National Patient Register and Swedish Prescribed Drug Register, have been established to record data for different purposes. One notable feature of the Swedish registers is that each Swedish resident is assigned a unique personal identification number (PIN), which allows the quick linkage of personal data across different registers. This ample resource has facilitated numerous epidemiological discoveries and will continue to enable valuable research in the future. During my research visit, I hope to work on target trial emulation using data from one of the specialised medical registries and information from the patient and prescription registers.

Over the past two weeks, I have worked with my supervisors and colleagues at CAUSALab to develop my target trial emulation project using Swedish register data. Dr Anita Berglund, Dr Anthony Matthews and Dr Conor MacDonald provided essential input for improving the research proposal and protocol. Besides working on my project, I was also invited to join CAUSALab group meetings and Work-in-Progress seminars, which covered topics ranging from cohort studies on mental health to developing statistical methods for the joint analysis of observational data and RCT results. I have found my time here to be very engaging and productive because I am absorbing new knowledge every day.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/stockholm/harbour.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/stockholm/IMM-snow.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/stockholm/snowplow.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Walking around Strandvägskajen / The IMM building in snow / Snowplow in KI campus
</div>

Like many other Nordic cities in February, Stockholm is still in the middle of winter. Last week, we had heavy snow for a few days. The snow-covered red brick buildings at KI campus are absolutely stunning! Thanks to the snowplow clearing the heavily snowed-in campus roads, we didn't have to walk in the deep snow to go home. The rain on Friday washed away most of the snow and ice from the street, and the weekend turned out to be surprisingly sunny. This is the second time I've seen the sun in two weeks :sunny: As the daytime is becoming longer, I look forward to seeing more sunny days and the spring in Stockholm!

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/stockholm/climbing.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/stockholm/semla.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Klättercentret Solna / Swedish dessert Semla made by a colleague on "Fettisdagen"
</div>

During my first week at KI, I joined my colleagues to go climbing after work and tried top rope climbing for the first time. I noticed that climbing is very popular in both the UK and Sweden. It is a challenging activity that requires both physical and mental strength, which is probably why my fellow researchers enjoy it so much. Top rope climbing (without auto-belaying) involves collaboration between the climber and the belayer, who hold the rope and ensure the climber's safety. Thanks to my amazing belayers, Anna, Francisco, and Conor, I had a great time :wink:

In addition to climbing, I also started to explore the food in Sweden. The 13th of February was Fettisdagen, when people traditionally eat the Swedish dessert Semla to celebrate "Fat Tuesday" (the same date as Pancake Day in the UK). I received a small Semla from a colleague at IMM (thank you!) and it was delicious.


