---
layout: post
title: A summary for March
date: 2024-04-01 12:00:00
description: 
tags: Stockholm PostDoc Karolinska-Institutet
categories: General
thumbnail: assets/img/stockholm/aula-medica.jpg
giscus_comments: true
---

Time flies! I know I promised to write a blog post every two weeks, but unfortunately, I missed the last update. It has been a really busy month for me, and I will update my recent work/life in this blog.

The weather in Stockholm is getting much better in March. It seems like spring has finally arrived! I've enjoyed a few days of lovely sunshine and finally, on a sunny afternoon, decided to visit Gamla Stan, the old town of Stockholm. Gamla Stan is a beautiful area with numerous charming attractions, such as the Nobel Prize Museum, independent cafes with unique features, and souvenir shops selling Swedish crafts. It is located in central Stockholm and easily accessible via public transport.

Research has been going smoothly in March. To refresh my knowledge of causal inference, I watched Professor Miguel Hernán's edX course on causal diagrams for the second time, and once again started reading his book *What If*. The book is a must-read for any epidemiologist who is interested in causal inference methods, and I expect that I will read it many times in the future. Early in the month, we had the second meeting between the Bristol and KI teams to discuss the protocol for the target trial emulation (TTE) project. Writing and refining the TTE protocol is an iterative process, so the protocol is expected to be constantly updated based on data availability and suggestions from epidemiologists as well as clinical experts. Organizing the meetings and collecting feedback from everyone takes time and effort! I'm grateful for everyone's help in this process (especially Anita, who contacted clinicians for their input. Thank you!). Now that we have obtained the necessary approval from the PI of the relevant Swedish register, I will proceed to request data access.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/stockholm/gamla-stan-swan.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/stockholm/streetview.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/stockholm/aula-medica.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Swans near Gamla Stan / Somewhere near Odenplan / Aula Medica
</div>

I have been attending various seminars at KI while working on the research project. Apart from the weekly work-in-progress seminars, organized by the Unit of Epidemiology and the Unit of Integrative Epidemiology at IMM, there are also public seminars available across the whole institute. Information on seminars is publically available via the [KI calendar](https://news.ki.se/ki-calendar), a centralised hub for events being held across the whole institution (which would be a really useful tool if we also have one at Bristol!). I learnt a lot from Professor Kristen Kennedy's presentation on her group's fascinating research on brain structure, cognitive function, and aging, presented at a seminar organized by the Aging Research Center (ARC) of the Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society.

The last week of March started off intense but ended with rewarding and happy moments. I underwent a significant academic milestone - my PhD viva (oral examination). The viva was held in person in Bristol, on the 25th of March, and lasted for a full three hours. I was joined by my internal examiner, Professor Oliver Davies, and two external examiners, Professor Cathryn Lewis and Dr Scott Ritchie. It was a very intense but enlightening discussion on my PhD work, which sparked many interesting new ideas for extending the work beyond my thesis. Despite a few unexpected questions (which are definitely worth thinking about!), the viva was a challenging but rewarding experience, and I am grateful for the opportunity to have received such constructive feedback from esteemed experts in my field. Later that week, I celebrated this achievement with my awesome PhD supervisors and colleagues from the IEU.

Having finished many things in March, I am now back in Stockholm and ready to work on my causal inference project. Looking forward to more sunny days in April!
